All right, so let's practice the concepts of test driven development or TDD in this code.
So here I have my playground.
Yes.
File open on the left.
I have my playground.
Test that jazz file open on the right.
And I've moved my terminal to a panel at the bottom of the screen.
If you want to do the same thing, by the way, you can always right click on the window that holds
your terminal and choose one of these options.
Move panel left.
Move panel.
Right.
Previously I clicked Move panel to the bottom to orient where your terminal is on the screen.
That just buys the more space to do our work.
Okay, so here's what I want to do.
I want to write a test for a new function called Multiply, and its responsibility will be to multiply
two numbers together.
So of course, we're going to follow the TDD approach so we can imagine as if this function exists,
we're going to import it in our test file, we're going to write a test for it, and then we're going
to use the failures and our output from GEST in the terminal to guide our implementation and eventually
our refactor.
So let's get started right here in playground that test that yes, I'm going to import a multiply function
from our playground file.
So obviously multiply does not exist yet, but that is exactly the point.
We are writing our test as if it did exist.
This is how we wish our code works.
We hope that there is a function called multiply that we can import from playground right below here.
After this describe block.
I'm going to add another describe.
In fact, what you can do if you want to keep things a little bit lighter on your screen is if you hover
your mouse to the left hand side of it describe, you'll see these collapse buttons.
And if you click this one, it's going to collapse even or odd.
It's not going to delete the content, it's just going to hide it so that we can go ahead and see more
of the file by kind of collapsing or hiding the internals of that function.
BLOCK So here I want to describe a new function called the multiply.
And of course, we're going to provide a function right here in line and arrow function.
All right.
And here we're going to provide our actual test.
So we're going to invoke the ID function and provide a description.
It multiplies two numbers together.
Notice here that I'm not talking about the implementation.
I'm talking about what the function should do when I invoke it.
And here is where we decide how we would like the multiply function to work in an ideal world.
So we sort of kind of start to think about implementation here, but we're not super concerned with
the actual details.
All we're concerned about is the inputs and the outputs.
So I'm going to expect that I'm going to have a function called multiply and I expect to give it to
arguments and sum multiplying two numbers together.
Say I feed in two and three.
And of course when I multiply these two numbers together, I expect the result, the return value to
be equal to six.
So I'm going to put expect multiply to be six.
All right.
So we do not have our implementation written and that's fine.
We're actually going to run our test suite right now with NPM run test unit in our terminal and we're
going to follow the errors and see where they lead us.
Let's take a look at what the very first error is going to be from from our just the first error we
can see is type error.
A playground multiply is not a function.
So what just is telling us here is it cannot find a name called Multiply in our program.
So before we even start defining the logic for a function, the first thing is we're importing it.
So we need to be able to make sure that multiply is defined within our playground file.
So what I'm going to do is simply export a concept called multiply and I'll make it a function.
So right here, I'm just going to provide an empty arrow function and I'm intentionally keeping things
very literally.
TDD Right now, I'm not adding any additional content inside the multiply function because I want the
test failures to guide me to the next small thing that I need to add.
Right?
So not only are we using TDD to arrive to a working implementation, we're using TDD to guide us to
the next small problem that we need to solve.
So I'm going to rerun the test and hopefully now we're going to be able to successfully import multiply.
So we've confirmed that that is correct.
And you're going to see we're going to receive undefined inside our actual final return value when we
expect it to receive six.
Right?
So now we have the permission to actually build up an implementation for the multiply function.
So what I'm going to do instead of using the asterisk multiplication symbol, I'm going to come up with
an intentionally bad or much more complex solution than needs to be.
And this is just for the purposes of example, when it comes to refactoring, when you're when you're
building out real code, obviously you should build the simplest thing that you can think of.
But many times the first solution that comes to mind isn't the best one, but it's the first one that
makes sense.
And so imagine that I'm here and I decide, okay, I know my function needs to arguments.
I'm going to say number one and number two.
And the way that we traditionally multiply is to add up each number, the number of times that the other
number says.
So, for example, I can iterate up up from zero to number one and that many times I can add number
two to a running total.
And that's basically what multiplication is.
It's a bunch of additions together.
So I might write code that looks like this.
I'm going to have a cumulative total, which I'll have in a total variable let total equals zero.
And then I'm going to do a four loop here to iterate from I equals zero up to number one.
I'm going to increment I by one each loop and that many number of times I'm going to increment total
by number two.
So in this case, of course, if we have two and three, we're going to iterate from zero up to two.
So we're going to have two total loops, zero and one.
And for each of those two loops, we're going to add the value of NUM two, which is 3 to 0.
So we're adding three once to get to three.
We're adding three a second time to get the six.
So now at the end of this four loop, our total variable stores are multiplied product and at the very
end I can return total.
All right.
So this is now the red phase.
Let's see if we can enter the green phase, if we can get our tests to pass.
And indeed they do.
So now we know that our functions implementation is indeed solving the problem of multiplying two numbers
together.
Everything is correct.
So now we enter our third stage of TDD, which is the refactor stage.
So this is where we can try to tweak our implementation without breaking the existing test.
And the idea is that we're trying to come up with a better solution.
But now we always have this test available to keep us honest and make sure that we are fulfilling the
responsibility of the multiply function.
If we did not do TDD, this test might not exist and we might not have the validation as we refactor
that we are actually covering all of our bases.
Now, again, with a problem like this, it's super small, so you might not see the benefit immediately.
But you can imagine if you're testing a complex class and you have a method that does three or four
different things and you start to refactor.
It's very easy to, for example, delete a line or add an extra line or do something redundant.
And if your tests aren't there to validate that all of your original functionality is preserved.
You might actually do extra work or accidentally remove something or introduce a hidden bug.
So the benefit of TDD is we have our tests available first.
So they're always going to be there to provide validation that our code works and does what it's supposed
to do.
So obviously maybe somebody will come up to us and say, Hey, that's not a really good solution.
You know, you can just use the multiply operator, right?
And we might say, Oh yeah, of course, I don't need this complex solution.
I can go ahead and say I can just return number one times and I'm to save this.
And the beautiful part is now we're in the refactor stage so we can keep running these tests to confirm
that our code works.
And when we do, we see that excellent multiply still multiplies two numbers together.
So now we feel comfortable that everything is working correctly.
We can even refactor this further and say, Oh, if you're familiar with JavaScript, E6 syntax and
you have a very simple expression like this, you can do an automatic return in a function by getting
rid of these curly braces.
Getting rid of that.
Getting rid of the return keyword.
And just moving all this up to a single line.
This is all valid.
JavaScript is syntax is going to automatically return the product of these two inputs.
And once again, if in case I forget even the basics of JavaScript and forget whether this is valid,
I have a really good way to check without ever needing to go and look up anything on Google.
I can just run my test suite and if it works then I know the code is delivering on its expectation of
multiplying two and three together and resulting in six.
All right.
So that's really all there is to cover in this lesson.
This is an example of TDD in action.
We write a failing test, we write the implementation, and then we refactor that until we get it into
an ideal shape.
And if we ever want to come back to this function, you know, six months from now, we have a test
suite that shows us how it's supposed to be used.
So we have really great documentation and we can always feel comfortable diving right into the refactor
because we know we have a good test suite that is going to cover us in case we make a mistake as we
fix up the code and make it better.
Right.
And if we want to add a new feature, we write a new test, make sure it fails and then continue writing
the new code.
Right.
We only write code in TDD as long as it fixes a broken test.
We never write code otherwise.
And that validates that we've properly tested everything.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see the next one.